                                                  
UN/EDIFACT STANDARD DIRECTORY

PART 3  TERMINOLOGY


GLOSSARY


Note:
----
These definitions are to explain terms as they relate to their use in 
the UN/EDIFACT documentation.  This glossary is a draft and has not been
approved. It will be finalized by the Rapporteur on
Multilingualism and Terminology for the Group of Experts on Data
Elements and Automatic Data Interchange (GE.1). 


-A-

Application: a specific function or data processing program.

ASC X12: Standards Committee X12 accredited by the American National
     Standards Institute (ANSI) and comprised of government and
     industry members meeting for the purpose of creating national EDI
     standards for submission to ANSI for subsequent approval and
     dissemination; and/or for the submission to the UN/ECE for
     approval and submission of UN/EDIFACT international standards.

ASCII: American Standard Code for Information Interchange.  ASCII is a
     seven bit code with an eighth bit used for parity.  The term is
     used to describe the format for transmission and for storage.

AS/EB: Asian EDIFACT Board 

AZ/EB: Australian/New Zealand EDIFACT Board.


-B-

Bureau (WP.4): Office bearers (Chairman and Vice Chairman) of
     UN/ECE/WP.4 and its Meeting of Experts on Data Elements and
     Automatic Data Interchange (GE.1) and Meeting of Experts on
     Procedures and Documentation (GE.2), and WP.4 Secretariat.
     [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]


-C-

CCITT: Comite consultatif international telegraphique et
     telephonique (International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative
     Committee).  Now called the ITU Telecommunication Standardi-
     zation Sector(ITU-T), a group responsible for the establishment
     of international telecommunications standards.

CEC: Commission of the European Economic Communities.  Governing
     body of the European Community.

CE/EB: Central and Eastern European EDIFACT Board.

CEN: European Committee for Standardisation, standardisation
     committee for the European Community.

Character set: a finite set of different characters that is
     considered complete for a given purpose.  [ISO 9735]

Code: (a) a character string used as an abbreviated means of recording
          or identifying information.
      (b) to represent or identify information using a specific
          symbolic form that can be recognised by a computer.
          [ISO TC154/SC1]

Component data element: a simple data element which is a
     subordinate portion of a composite data element and an
     interchange identified by its position within the composite
     data element.  [ISO 9735]

Component data element separator: a character used to separate
     component data elements in a composite data element.  [ISO 9735]

Composite data element: a data element containing two or more
     component data elements.  [ISO 9735]

Conditional: a statement in a segment or message directory of a
     condition for the use of a segment, a data element, a composite
     data element, or a component data element (cf. mandatory).
     [ISO 9735]


-D-

Data: a representation of facts, concepts or instructions in a
     formalized manner suitable for communication, interpretation
     or processing by human beings or by automatic means.
     [ISO 9735]

Data element: a unit of data which, in a certain context, is
     considered indivisible.  [ISO 2382/4]  UN/EDIFACT: a unit
     of data for which the identification, description and value
     representation have been specified.  [ISO 9735]

Data element attribute: a defined characteristic of a data element.

Data element directory: a listing of identified, named and described
     data element attributes, with specifications as to how the
     corresponding data element values shall be represented.
     [ISO 9735]

Data element name: one or more words in a natural language identifying
     a data element concept.  [ISO 9735]

Data element reference number: see data element tag.

Data element requirement designator: see requirement designator.

Data element separator: a character used to separate data elements in
     a segment.  [ISO 9735]

Data element tag: a unique identifier for a data element in a data
     element directory.  [ISO 9735]

Data element value: the specific entry of an identified data
     element represented as specified in a data element directory.

Data element representation: the format (e.g. numeric, alphabetic,
     variable length etc.) of a data item.

Data unit: a segment, segment group, composite data element, data
     element as defined in a directory and its message type
     specifications.

Directory version: an indication of the issue of a Directory. It
     includes the figure "D" for directory and the last two figures
     of the year of agreement.

DISA: Data Interchange Standards Association.  Secretariat of
     the ASC X12 Committee.  Also serves as the secretariat for
     the Pan American EDIFACT Board.

Document: a data carrier and the data recorded on it, that is
     generally permanent and that can be read by man or machine.
     [ISO 2382/4]


-E-

EB: See EDIFACT Board.

EBES: European Board for EDI Standardization

EU: European Union, the fifteen member states of the European
     Union.

ECE: Economic Commission for Europe.  See UN/ECE.

EDCD: directory of composite data elements included in UNTDID.
     [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

EDED: directory of data elements included in the UNTDID (a subset of
     the UNTDED).

EDI: see Electronic Data Interchange.

EDIFACT: Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce and
     Transport.  See UN/EDIFACT.

EDIFACT Board: the advisory and support team for a UN/EDIFACT
     Rapporteur.  See rapporteur advisory and support team.

EDMD: directory of messages included in UNTDID.  [UN/EDIFACT
     Procedures]

EDSD: directory of segments included in the UNTDID.

EFTA: European Free Trade Association, composed of Iceland, Norway, 
      Switzerland and Liechtenstein.

Electronic Data Interchange: the computer-to-computer transmission of
     (business) data in a standard format.

Explicit representation: the technique used to give an absolute
     identification of the location of a data segment within a
     message.


-F-

Formal trial: a (Status 1) Draft Recommendation phase in UNSM
     development, agreed by WP.4, before a draft UNSM reaches the
     status of Recommendation (Status 2).  N.B. This does not
     preclude prior testing.   [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

Framework (message framework): a template containing a sequenced
     set of all groups/segments which relate to a functional
     business area (or multi-functional business area) and
     applying to all messages defined for that area (or areas).
     [TRADE/WP.4/R.633]

Functional group: one or more messages of the same type headed
     by a functional group header service segment and ending with
     a functional group trailer service segment.  [UN/EDIFACT
     Procedures]

Functional group header: the service segment heading and identifying
     the functional group.  [ISO 9735]

Functional group trailer: the service segment ending a functional
     group.  [ISO 9735]

Functional requirement: identification of the business or
     administrative needs to be met.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]


-G-

GE.1: UN/ECE WP.4 Experts on Data Elements and Automatic Data
     Interchange, meeting in the framework of WP.4.

GE.2: UN/ECE WP.4 Experts on Procedures and Documentation, meeting
     in the framework of WP.4.

Generic data element: see qualified data element.

Group of segments: identified, usually repeatable, grouping of
     segments.


-H-

Header section: the portion of the message which precedes the
     actual body and trailer of the business transaction, and
     which contains information which relates to the entire
     message.  Synonymous with header area.


-I-

Identifier: a character or group of characters used to identify
     or name an item of data and possibly to indicate certain
     properties of that data.  [ISO 9735]

Implicit representation: the technique whereby the location of a
     data segment is implied from its relative position within
     the message.

Interchange: communication between partners in the form of a
     structured set of messages and service segments starting
     with an interchange control header and ending with an
     interchange control trailer.  [ISO 9735]

Interchange agreement: document, usually in the form of a user
     manual, which describes, e.g., level of syntax, messages,
     legal and security requirements, etc.

ISO: International Organisation for Standardisation, based in
     Geneva.  It is a federation of national standards
     organisations.

ISO 7372: ISO Trade Data Elements Directory, identical to sections 1,
     2, 3, 4 and 9 of UNTDED.

ISO 9735: International Standard issued by ISO which reproduces
     the UN/EDIFACT Syntax Rules as agreed by WP.4.

ISO 2382: ISO Data Processing Vocabulary.


-J-

JTC/EDI: the Standards Council of Canada Joint Technical Committee
     on EDI (JTC/EDI) and serves as Canada's representative to ISO.

JRT: Joint Rapporteur Team.  Joint meeting of all rapporteur and
     advisory support teams.


-K-


-L-

Level: relative hierarchial position of a data segment within a
     message.


-M-

Mandatory: a statement in a segment or message directory which
     specifies that a segment, a data element, a composite data
     element or a component data element must be used.
     [ISO 9735]

Maximum use: specifies the maximum number of occurrences allowed
     for a data element, composite data element, segment or a loop
     which maybe repeated.

Message: an ordered series of characters intended to convey
     information.  [ISO 2382/16]  UN/EDIFACT: a set of segments
     in the order specified in a message directory starting with
     the message header and ending with the message trailer.
     [ISO 9735]  Equivalent to a transaction set.

Message code: a unique six character alphabetic reference
     identifying a message type.

Message diagram: a graphic representation of the sequence of
     segments within a message.

Message directory: a listing of identified, named, described and
     specified message types. (EDMD, TRMD)

Message header: the service segment starting and uniquely
     identifying a message.  [ISO 9735]

Message trailer: the service segment ending a message.  [ISO 9735]

Message type: an identified and structured set of data elements
     covering the requirements for a specified type of
     transaction, e.g. invoice.  [ISO 9735]


-N-

National standards body: an organisation within a country charged
     with developing national standards and contributing to interna-
     tional standardisation through ISO.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

Nested segment: a segment which directly relates to another segment
     in an identified and structured group of segments covering the
     requirements for a specific message type.  [ISO 9735]


-O-

Omission: exclusion in an actual message of one or more units of
     data which are defined as conditional in a message type
     specification.  [ISO 9735]


-P-

PA/EB: Pan American EDIFACT Board.  Support and advisory team for the
     Pan American Rapporteur.

Progressive data transfer: a technique allowing a sender to transfer
     a series of messages as more data becomes available.  The
     recipient creates, for this purpose, a business file for the
     eventual linking of all the data.  The messages are linked by
     common referencing.


-Q-

Qualified data element: a data element whose precise meaning is
     conveyed by an associated qualifier.

Qualified data segment: a data segment whose precise meaning is
     conveyed by an associated qualifier.

Qualifier: a data element whose value shall be expressed as a
     code that gives specific meaning to the function of another
     data element or a segment.  [ISO 9735]


-R-

Rapporteur (UN/EDIFACT rapporteur): person nominated by his/her
     government and appointed by UN/ECE/WP.4 to initiate and co-
     ordinate UN/EDIFACT development work in his/her geographical
     area of jurisdiction.  The nomination must be endorsed by
     the countries in that area of jurisdiction.  [UN/EDIFACT
     Procedures]

Rapporteur advisory and support team: a body of experts
     organised in committees providing co-ordinated input and
     support to the rapporteurs.  Their tasks include conformance
     analysis, message design, maintenance, documentation and
     promotion.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

Receiving Secretariat:  the receiving secretariat is the RT
     secretariat which has received a new message request, change
     request or code request and which fulfills secretariat
     duties until a supporting secretariat is assigned by the
     working group (see supporting secretariat).

Release: a unique sub-issue of a Directory Set within a Version.
     Releases are used to further define Version publications of
     the UN/EDIFACT standards. See Version/Release.

Release character: a character used to restore to its original
     meaning any character used as a syntactical separator.
     [ISO 9735]

Repeating segment: a segment which may repeat in a message as
     specified in the relevant message type specification.
     [ISO 9735]

Requirement designator: specifies whether an element or segment
     is mandatory or conditional. Also referred to as status.

RT: Rapporteur Team.  See rapporteur advisory and support team.


-S-

Section control segment: a service segment used to separate
     header, detail and summary sections of a message where
     necessary to avoid ambiguities in the message segment
     content.

Segment: a predefined and identified set of functionally related
     data elements values which are identified by their
     sequential positions within the set.  A segment starts with
     a segment tag and ends with a segment terminator.  It can
     be a service segment or a user data segment.

Segment code: a code which uniquely identifies each segment as
     specified in a segment directory.  [ISO 9735]

Segment directory: a listing of identified, named, described and
     specified segments.  [ISO 9735]  See EDSD.

Segment name: one or more words in a natural language
     identifying a data segment concept.

Segment qualifier: see qualifier.

Segment table: a table showing the sequential order of segments,
     their arrangements in segment groups and the status and
     allowed repetitions of the segments and groups in a message.

Segment tag: a composite data element in which the first
     component data element contains a code which uniquely
     identifies a segment as specified in the relevant segment
     directory.  Additional component data elements can be
     conditionally used to indicate the hierarchical level and
     nesting relation in a message and the incidence of
     repetition of the segment.  [ISO 9735]

Segment terminator: a syntax character indicating the end of a
     segment.  [ISO 9735]

Separator character: a character used for syntactical separation
     of data.  [ISO 9735]  Also known as a delimiter.

Service data element: a data element used in service segments.
     [ISO 9735]

Service segment: a segment required to service the interchange
     of user data.  [ISO 9735]

Service string advice: a character string at the beginning of an
     interchange defining syntactically delimiting characters and
     indicators used in the interchange.  [ISO 9735]

Simple data element: a data element containing a single value.
     [ISO 9735]

Simple segment: a segment which requires no qualification, i.e.
     whose meaning is fixed and explicit.

Standard message: A United Nations Standard Message (UNSM) as 
     published by the United Nations in the UN/EDIFACT Standard 
     Directory (UNTDID).

Sub-set: an extract of a message type for use within an industry
     or application.  The extract shall follow the rules for omission
     of data units and the subset usually indicates only those units
     needed by the industry or application. See UNSM sub-set.

Summary section: the portion of the message which follows the
     body of the message and which contains summary information
     relating to the entire message.  Synonymous with summary
     area.

Supporting Secretariat: the supporting secretariat is the secretariat
     assigned by an RT to support its working groups activities which
     includes responsibility for submission of their documentation.

Syntax rules: rules governing the structure of an interchange
     and its functional groups, messages, segments and data
     elements.  [ISO 9735]


-T-

Tag: a unique identifier for a segment or data element.
     [ISO 9735]

TC154: ISO Technical Committee 154 for Documents and Data Elements
     in Administration, Commerce and Industry.

TDED: See UNTDED.

TDID: See UNTDID.

Technical assessment: the process by which UN/EDIFACT Messages
     and supporting Directories are evaluated for conformance to
     syntax, message design and syntax implementation rules.
     Technical Assessment is performed within the Rapporteur's
     Teams as part of the agreed UN/EDIFACT Procedures.

Trade Facilitation Organisation: a national body co-ordinating
     or monitoring trade facilitation developments at national
     level, providing input to UN/ECE/WP.4 and disseminating
     information on trade facilitation developments, including
     UN/EDIFACT.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

TRADE/WP.4/R....: a document issued by the UN/ECE/WP.4
     Secretariat in conjunction with the meetings of UN/ECE/WP.4.
     Such documents can be obtained from the national Trade
     Facilitation Organisation, or equivalent organisation, or
     the UN/ECE secretariat.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

Trade data interchange application protocol (TD-AP): an accepted
     method for interchange of trade data messages, based on
     international standards for the presentation and structuring
     of trade data transfers conveyed by teletransmission.

Trade data log: a collection of trade data transfers that provides
     a complete historical record of trade data interchanged.

Trade data message: trade data exchanged between parties concerned
     with the conclusion or performance of a trade transaction.

Trade data transfer: (also referred to as "transfer"); one or more
     trade data messages sent together as one unit of dispatch which
     includes heading and terminating data.

Trade transaction: a specific contract for the purchase and sale
     or supply of goods and/or services and/or other performances
     between the parties concerned, identified as the transaction
     to which a trade data message refers.

Trading partners: the sending and/or receiving parties involved
     in exchanging electronic business messages.

TRIAL Directory: See UN/EDIFACT TRIAL Directory


-U-

UNCID: Uniform Rules of Conduct for the Interchange of Trade Data by
     Teletransmission, developed by the International Chamber
     of Commerce.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

UNCL: directory of code sets associated with coded data elements.

UNSL: directory of code sets associated with coded service data 
     elements.

UN/ECE: United Nations Economic Commission of Europe, one of the
     five regional commissions of the United Nations.  It is
     comprised of North America, Western Europe and Eastern
     Europe.  Headquarters are in Geneva.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

UN/ECE WP.4: Working Party on Facilitation of International
     Trade Procedures, a subsidiary body of UN/ECE Committee on
     the Development of Trade.  WP.4 includes national
     delegations appointed by governments and international
     organisations having consultative status with UN or invited
     by the Secretariat.  It is comprised of experts on data
     elements and automatic data interchange (GE.1) and experts
     on procedures and documentation (GE.2) which are appointed
     by their governments or by organisations recognized by UN/ECE.

UN/EDIFACT: United Nations rules for Electronic Data Interchange
     for Administration, Commerce and Transport.  They comprise a
     set of standards, directories and guidelines for the
     electronic interchange of structured data, and in particular
     that related to trade in goods or services, between
     independent computerized information systems.  Recommended
     within the framework of the United Nations, the rules are
     approved and published by the UN/ECE in the United Nations
     Trade Data Interchange Directory (UNTDID) and are maintained
     under agreed procedures.  UNTDID includes:
      * UN/EDIFACT Application Level Syntax Rules (ISO 9735);
      * UN/EDIFACT Message Design Guidelines (MDG);
      * UN/EDIFACT Syntax Implementation Guidelines (SIG);
      * UN/EDIFACT Data Element Directory, EDED (a subset
           of UNTDED);
      * UN/EDIFACT Code List, EDCL;
      * UN/EDIFACT Composite Data Element Directory, EDCD;
      * UN/EDIFACT Segment Directory, EDSD;
      * UN/EDIFACT United Nations Standard Message Directory
           (UNSM), EDMD;
      * Uniform Rules of Conduct for the Interchange of Trade Data
           by Teletransmission (UNCID);
      * Explanatory material.

UN/EDIFACT DIRECTORY: See UN/EDIFACT Standard Directory

UN/EDIFACT STANDARD DIRECTORY: the directory of UNSM messages and their
     supporting segment, composite, data element and code list 
     directories are approved and published by the UN/ECE in 
     the United Nations Trade Data Interchange Directory (UNTDID) 
     and are maintained under agreed procedures.

UN Layout Key (UNLK): A pro-forma document used for indicating spaces
     reserved for certain statements appearing in international
     trade documents in an integrated system. [ECE; ISO DP 6422]

UNSM: United Nations Standard Message, an EDIFACT message type
     approved for international use.  A UNSM is a message which:
     I.   has been registered, published and which is maintained
          by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe;
     II.  has the values contained in the Controlling Agency,
          Message Type, Message Version Number and Message
          Release Number fields (the requirements for the use of
          which are specified in ISO 9735), allocated and
          controlled by the UN/ECE;
     III. always has the code value "UN" in the Controlling
          Agency field.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

UNSM Sub-set: a sub-set of a UNSM is a message which is directly
     derived from an approved UNSM, has the same function as the
     UNSM from which it is derived, and which:
     I.   contains all of the groups and segments defined as
          having a mandatory status within the message, and the
          mandatory data elements within them.  There shall be no
          change to the status, order or content of the groups,
          segments and composite data elements and data elements
          contained within the segments.  (It should be noted,
          however, that although many UNSMs contain Conditional
          Groups of segments which may contain one or more
          mandatory segments, providing the complete conditional
          group is omitted from the sub-set, this does not break
          the rule regarding the inclusion of mandatory
          segments);
     II.  does not change the status, order or content of the
          segments, composite data elements and data elements in
          the conditional segments chosen for use from the UNSM.
     III. does not add any segments, composite data elements or
          data elements to the message;
     IV.  contains the identical values specified for use in the
          Message Type, Controlling Agency, Message Version
          Number and Message Release Number fields, as are specified
          for the UNSM from which the sub-set is derived.
          [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

UNTDED: United Nations Trade Data Elements Directory, part of which
     constitutes ISO 7372.  It includes the standard data elements and
     associated codes.  UNTDED is jointly maintained by the UN
     Secretariat and ISO.  [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

UNTDID: United Nations Trade Data Interchange Directory.  See
     UN/EDIFACT for documents included in the UNTDID.
     [UN/EDIFACT Procedures]

User data segment: a segment containing application data.  [ISO 9735]

-V-

Version number: a number identifying the status of a message type.
      See Version/release.

Version/release: indication of the periodic issue of a UNTDID.
    
-W-

WE/EB: Western European EDIFACT Board. See EBES

WP.4: Working Party 4.  See UN/ECE/WP.4.


-X-

X12: See ASC X12.


-Y-


-Z-
