                                                  
UN/EDIFACT STANDARD DIRECTORY

PART 4  UNITED NATIONS RULES FOR ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE
        FOR ADMINISTRATION, COMMERCE AND TRANSPORT


CHAPTER 2.1 - Establishment of United Nations Standard Message
              types (UNSMs)


* The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE) embraces
Western, Eastern and Central Europe as well as Canada and the United
States.  It comprises 55 member states; in addition, any member
country of the United Nations may participate in UN/ECE meetings on
a subject in which they have an interest (Article 11 of the ECE
terms of reference). Approved inter-governmental and
non-governmental organizations may participate in certain
committees.

The UN/ECE Working Party on Facilitation of International Trade
Procedures (WP.4) is a subsidiary body of the Committee on the
development of trade (TRADE). It is comprised of experts on data
elements and automatic data interchange (GE.1) and experts on
procedures and documentation (GE.2) which are appointed by their
governments or by organizations recognized by UN/ECE.

UN/EDIFACT Rapporteurs are nominated by a government and appointed
by WP.4. They are requested to implement an agreed common mandate:

(i)   to set up a consultative machinery,

(ii)  to establish the facilities required to develop, maintain and
      implement the UN/ECE Recommendations on standards as they relate
      to syntax, data elements, segments, message design guidelines
      and message types.

(iii) to develop and offer technical assessment facilities where
      appropriate

(iv)  to develop any other appropriate documentation and procedures to
      assist in the implementation of the UN/ECE Recommendations on
      EDI.

(v)   to provide co-ordination facilities between the Rapporteurs and
      the WP.4 Secretariat.

A Rapporteur has the agreed mandate for an area of jurisdiction and
establishes a supporting Rapporteur's Team (RT) with Working Groups
(WG) for specific areas.

Normally, items of work in the UN/EDIFACT programme are joint RT
activities but in some cases an item can be studied by one RT only.
For joint RT activities, Joint Working Groups (JWG) must be
established. The RT through which an item is first approved for
development is referred to as the originating RT.

The following procedures have been agreed for the development of UN
Standard Message types (UNSMs) and related documentation. For more
detailed information see document UN/ECE/TRADE/WP.4/R.785.

Requests for a new UNSM or for changes to an existing UNSM.

   Requests for a new UNSM or for changes to existing UNSMs and
   for those in formal trial, including their supporting material
   may originate from any national or international organization
   or association or from an RT or its WG and should be based on
   identified, common business requirements. Such requests should
   be submitted to the secretariat of the relevant RT or to the
   UN/ECE/TRADE/WP.4 secretariat.

Message in development

   When a RT or JWG has processed a request for a new message type
   and has prepared a draft according to its procedures which must
   include technical assessment, the originating RT can give it
   status Message in development and submit it to WP.4 as soon 
   as possible for information only.

Standard message 

   When all RTs formally agree that a Message in development has 
   reached a level of stability such that it can be considered by 
   WP.4 as a Standard message, the Rapporteurs will submit a 
   proposal to WP.4 for approval as a UNSM.

Within each document Message in development and Standard message
there may be revisions. In order to ensure precise identification, 
the type, version, release, controlling agency and date are indicated 
on the cover sheet for each message type and correspondingly in the 
message header segment (UNH), the type, version, release and 
controlling agency.

Message types and their supporting material are published as follows:

  Message in development as WP.4 information documents
  Standard message (UNSM) in Trade Data Interchange Directories (UNTDID)
           also known as STANDARD directories. 
















                                                                   

